Introduction to OOPS Programming
Section A: Concept Application (Theoretical – Scenario Based)

Question 1. You are building a food delivery application. At which stage would you prefer
using a compiler over an interpreter, and why? Explain based on execution
speed, error detection and deployment

Answer : 1. Execution Speed
A compiled language (like Go, Rust, or Java) converts code to machine code before runtime. In a food delivery app, this matters for:

Order dispatch algorithms — matching drivers to orders in milliseconds
Real-time GPS tracking — processing thousands of concurrent location updates
Peak load handling — Friday night surges with 10,000+ simultaneous orders

Since there's no interpretation overhead at runtime, the CPU executes instructions directly — critical when latency directly impacts user experience.
2. Error Detection
Compiled languages perform static type checking at build time, catching errors before deployment:

A type mismatch in payment calculation (e.g., passing a string where a float is expected) is caught before it reaches production
Memory errors and null pointer issues are flagged early
This is crucial because a bug in the payment or order routing service could mean financial loss or failed deliveries
3. Deployment

Code compiles into a single binary or artifact — easy to containerize (Docker) and deploy consistently
No runtime dependency on an interpreter version across servers
Ideal for microservices (order service, payment service) where you want predictable, stable deployments


When to Use an Interpreter
Best suited for: Admin dashboards, promo/coupon configuration scripts, and rapid feature prototyping
1. Execution Speed
Interpreted languages (Python, Ruby, JavaScript/Node.js) are slower at raw execution, but perfectly acceptable for:

Internal tools (restaurant onboarding scripts, analytics dashboards)
Low-frequency operations where 50ms vs 5ms doesn't matter

2. Error Detection
Errors surface only at runtime, which means:

A bug in a promo code generator might only appear when a user applies a coupon
Requires heavy test coverage to compensate — acceptable for non-critical paths

3. Deployment

Faster iteration cycle — no compile step means quicker updates to menu configs, pricing rules, or A/B test logic
Great for scripting and automation (e.g., a Python script to bulk-update restaurant menus)

Question2. You are asked to design a program that calculates employee salary with
multiple conditions (bonus, tax, overtime). Which programming constructs
would you combine to solve this efficiently?

Answer : Functions — The Most Critical Construct
 Functions
A salary calculator has three distinct rules — bonus, tax, and overtime. Functions let you isolate each rule into its own block:
def calculate_bonus(base, score):
    if score >= 90:   return base * 0.20
    elif score >= 75: return base * 0.10
    else:             return 0

def calculate_tax(gross):
    if gross > 100000: return gross * 0.35
    elif gross > 50000: return gross * 0.25
    else:               return gross * 0.15

def calculate_overtime(base, hours):
    return (base / 2080) * 1.5 * hours

def calculate_salary(base, hours, score):
    gross = base + calculate_bonus(base, score) + calculate_overtime(base, hours)
    return gross - calculate_tax(gross)

# One clean call
print(calculate_salary(50000, 10, 85))

Question 3 :  While developing a menu-driven console application, why are loops
preferred over conditional repetition? Explain which loop you would choose
and why?
Answer : 
Why Loops Are Preferred Over Conditional Repetition
1. Continuous Execution
A menu should repeat automatically after each user action.
Loops allow the program to run multiple times without rewriting code.
A simple if condition runs only once, so it cannot maintain a continuous menu.

Example: After placing an order, the menu should appear again — loops handle this easily.
2. Better Control
Loops provide control using:
break → to exit the menu
continue → to skip invalid input and show menu again
This makes the program more interactive and user-friendly.

3. Cleaner & Shorter Code
Without loops, you would need to repeat the same code many times using if statements.
Loops avoid redundancy and make code easy to maintain.

while loop is the best choice
Why while loop?
1.Condition-based execution
Runs until a condition becomes false
Perfect for menus: run until user chooses Exit
2.Unknown number of iterations
You don’t know how many times the user will use the menu
while loop handles this flexibility well
3.Easy exit control
You can stop the loop when user enters a specific choice (like 3 for Exit)

Question 4. A student writes a program to calculate average marks using int variables
and gets incorrect output. Identify the probable cause and explain how
choosing the correct data type solves the issue.

Answer : What Went Wrong?

When calculating average:

Average=Number of Subjects
        Total Marks
	​

If both values are int, the result will also be treated as an integer.
This causes loss of decimal (fractional) part. 
Solution: Use Correct Data Type (float)
Use float (decimal type) for average calculation
It stores values like 87.67 correctly

Why float Solves the Problem
1. Accuracy
Keeps decimal values → correct average
2. Real-world correctness
Marks average is often not a whole number
3. Proper calculation
Division result is stored exactly, not truncated
Always choose data type based on the nature of data:

Whole numbers → int
Decimal values → float

Question 5. You are debugging a program that complies successfully but crashes at
runtime. Which category of error is this? Mention two debugging practices
you would follow to resolve it.
Answer : Type of Error

This is a Runtime Error.

Explanation:
The program has no syntax errors (it compiles successfully )
But it fails during execution 
Common causes:
Division by zero
Invalid input
Null/None reference
Out-of-bounds access

Two Debugging Practices
1.  Use Print Statements / Logging
Add print() statements to check variable values step-by-step
Helps identify where the program is failing

2. Use Debugger / Step Execution
Run the program line by line
Check how variables change during execution
Tools: IDE debugger (breakpoints)

Helps find the exact line causing crash

Question 6. You need to store student records with name, marks, and grade.
Why would you choose a structure over multiple arrays in this scenario?

Answer : Why Choose Structure (or Class)?
A structure (or class in Python) stores related data together.
Advantage of Structure
1. Data Organization
All details of one student are stored in one place
2. Better Data Integrity
No mismatch between name, marks, and grade
3. Easy to Use
4. Scalability
Easy to add more fields (age, roll no, etc.)
